For the links in our menu or for the items here, I want to add links.
Now how does this work? Just as it works anywhere else
because sometimes it's hard to keep this in mind
but we're still in an Angular app here,
this is a normal Angular template,
so of course you can use things like router link in here.
And indeed we can,
so we can add a router link here and go to places tabs discover for this first item and for this
second item here,
I can add a router link and go to bookings because if you have a look at your app routing module, we
got that bookings route that loads the bookings module. And for logout, well there, I actually want to
add a click listener
and then do something else
and there I want to trigger on logout and I will add an onLogout method to my component here therefore
but I'll not do anything there, at the moment
just have it there, we'll add login and so on later in the course.
So now if we save that, we should have some links here in that menu, so
let's wait for the application to reload and let's try going to the bookings page and it kind of works.
Here it is
but wouldn't it be nice if that menu closed after going there because right now, if I go somewhere, if
I click something, it stays open and by the way for logout, you also see we got no animation when I play
this, when I click this, reason for that is by default an ion item is not a button, the click will still be registered
and will still execute on logout
but to have that nice ripple animation, you should add button here as an attribute to ion item.
But this is not related to the issue of the menu not closing, it will just fix that,
when this page reloads, we now get a ripple effect here too.
But what about closing the menu when we select an item? For that,
we got two options,
one option is we could add our own click listener, inject the menu controller and then manually call close,
you learned how that would work.
But to me, that sounds really cumbersome,
there is a way easier way of doing that,
there is a special component Ionic gives you. You can wrap your list items or anything in your app anywhere,
that should close or should toggle to be precise
the main menu with ion menu toggle. The difference to ion menu button is that this will now not render
a hamburger and open the menu, instead it will render nothing but you can wrap it around anything that
should toggle the menu, doesn't have to be inside of the menu by the way,
you could have this anywhere in your application.
Now of course, ion menu toggle also takes a menu attribute in case you're using an ID on your menu
so that you can tell Ionic which menu you're trying to toggle, if you don't set an ID,
it will use the main menu it detects and I will simply wrap ion menu toggle around all my list items here
so that they all will close the menu when I press them,
here I am.
So now with ion menu toggle wrapped around all items,
now as this reloads, the menu closes when I tap one of these icons.
So let's now make sure we also fixed that bookings page here and add the menu icon there too, first
of all I set the title to your bookings
and then here I'll add ion buttons with a slot of start and in there, add the ion menu button
and now we will be able to open the menu from inside our bookings as well.
So let's wait for this to finish,
discover places, bookings, all working just fine.
So this is now how we can add such a side menu,
not too difficult as you can tell
and really powerful with all these special components and with the menu controller that allow us to
control the menu from anywhere on our page.